SOFTHSM2-UTIL(1)	    General Commands Manual	      SOFTHSM2-UTIL(1)



NAME
       softhsm2-util - support tool for libsofthsm2

SYNOPSIS
       softhsm2-util --show-slots

       softhsm2-util --init-token --free --label text \
	      [--so-pin PIN --pin PIN]

       softhsm2-util --import path [--file-pin PIN] --token label \
	      [--pin PIN --no-public-key] --label text --id hex

       softhsm2-util --delete-token --token text

DESCRIPTION
       softhsm2-util  is a support tool mainly for libsofthsm2. It can also be
       used with other PKCS#11 libraries by using the option --module

       Read the sections below to get more information on the libsofthsm2  and
       PKCS#11.   Most applications assumes that the token they want to use is
       already initialized.  It is then up  to	the  user  to  initialize  the
       PKCS#11	token.	 This  is  done  by  using  the PKCS#11 interface, but
       instead of writing your own tool you can use the softhsm2-util tool.

       Keys are usually created directly in the token, but the user  may  want
       to  use an existing key pair.  Keys can be imported to a token by using
       the PKCS#11 interface, but this tool can also be used if the  user  has
       the  key  pair in a PKCS#8 file.  If you need to convert keys from BIND
       .private-key format over to PKCS#8, one can use softhsm2-keyconv.

       The libary libsofthsm2, known as SoftHSM, provides cryptographic  func‐
       tionality  by using the PKCS#11 API.  It was developed as a part of the
       OpenDNSSEC  project,  thus  designed  to  meet  the   requirements   of
       OpenDNSSEC, but can also work together with other software that want to
       use the functionality of the PKCS#11 API.

       SoftHSM is a software implementation of a generic cryptographic	device
       with a PKCS#11 interface.  These devices are often called tokens.  Read
       in the manual softhsm2.conf(5) on how to create these  tokens  and  how
       they are added to a slot in SoftHSM.

       The  PKCS#11  API  can  be used to handle and store cryptographic keys.
       This interface specifies how to communicate with cryptographic  devices
       such  as HSMs (Hardware Security Modules) and smart cards.  The purpose
       of these devices is, among others, to generate cryptographic  keys  and
       sign  information without revealing private-key material to the outside
       world.  They are often designed to perform well on these specific tasks
       compared to ordinary processes in a normal computer.

ACTIONS
       --delete-token
	      Delete the token at a given slot.  Use with --token or --serial.
	      Any content in token will be erased.

       --help, -h
	      Show the help information.

       --import path
	      Import a key pair from the given path.   The  file  must	be  in
	      PKCS#8-format.
	      Use  with  --slot  or  --token  or  --serial, --file-pin, --pin,
	      --no-public-key, --label, and --id.

       --init-token
	      Initialize the token at a  given	slot,  token  label  or  token
	      serial.	If  the token is already initialized then this command
	      will reinitialize it, thus erasing all the objects in the token.
	      The  matching  Security  Officer	(SO) PIN must also be provided
	      when doing reinitialization.
	      Use with --slot or --token or --serial or --free, --label, --so-
	      pin, and --pin.

       --show-slots
	      Display all the available slots and their current status.

       --version, -v
	      Show the version info.

OPTIONS
       --file-pin PIN
	      The  PIN	will be used to decrypt the PKCS#8 file.  If not given
	      then the PKCS#8 file is assumed to be unencrypted.

       --force
	      Use this option to override the warnings	and  force  the  given
	      action.

       --free Use the first free/uninitialized token.

       --id hex
	      Choose  an  ID of the key pair.  The ID is in hexadecimal with a
	      variable length.	Use with --force when importing a key pair  if
	      the ID already exists.

       --label text
	      Defines the label of the object or the token that will be set.

       --module path
	      Use another PKCS#11 library than SoftHSM.

       --no-public-key
	      Do not import the public key.

       --pin PIN
	      The PIN for the normal user.

       --serial number
	      Will use the token with a matching serial number.

       --slot number
	      The slot where the token is located.

       --so-pin PIN
	      The PIN for the Security Officer (SO).

       --token label
	      Will use the token with a matching token label.

EXAMPLES
       The token can be initialized using this command:

	      softhsm2-util --init-token --slot 1 --label "mytoken"

       A key pair can be imported using the softhsm tool where you specify the
       path to the key file, slot number, label and ID of the new objects, and
       the user PIN.  The file must be in PKCS#8 format.

	      softhsm2-util --import key1.pem --token "mytoken" --label "My key" \
		     --id A1B2 --pin 123456
	      (Add, --file-pin PIN, if the key file is encrypted.)

AUTHORS
       Written	by Rickard Bellgrim, Francis Dupont, René Post, and Roland van
       Rijswijk.

SEE ALSO
       softhsm2-keyconv(1), softhsm2-migrate(1), softhsm2.conf(5)



SoftHSM 			 20 April 2016		      SOFTHSM2-UTIL(1)
